1. Linked service
Ans: Linked service it is a connection between azure and other service
connection type
1.Azure sql database
2.blob storage
3.Data lake
4.sql server


2. What is Integration Runtime and its types?
Ans: Integration Runtime is give a compute power to the adf and it will do work using virtual machine
    its type
   1.azure integration runtime - it is  cloud data source
   2.self hosted IR - it will used to connect local server
   3.SSIS IR - it will run package in azure

3. When will we use Tumbling Window Trigger?
Ans: when we want to run pipeline for every 1 hour 
     we will give fixed time to the trigger
     it will run pipeline that time only


4. What are the types of triggers?
Ans: 1.Schedule trigger - it will run specific time
     2.Tumbling window trigger - it will run fixed time
     3. Event trigger - it will run when a action immediately happed it will run immediately

5. I have an on-prem file. How do I copy it? Mention Self-hosted IR.
 Ans: i have a file in my local server and i upload the file to azure portal after that i go to the adf and create 2 linked service 1 for source another 1 for destination to blob storage there is a multiple file in that source blob storage we want to take particular file that's why we choose Dataset i will create 2 dataset 1 for source another 1 for destination and create pipeline to take copy activity and choose source dataset and sink dataset for blob storage and mapping and run the pipeline
  

6. Name the activities that you have used in ADF.
Ans: 1.lookup activity
     2.foreach activity 
     3.if activity
     4.copy activity
     5.set activity
     6.script activity
     7.stored procedure activity
     8.executive pipeline activity
     9.delete activity
     10.filter activity
     11.get meta activity

7. Explain each activity and its use. Take any 5 and explain. Please don't take Copy Activity.
Ans:  lookup activity - it is used to get the information about table 
      Get meta activity - it is used to get the information about files and folder
      foreach activity - it is used to loop multiple items
      script activity - it will use to create sql script
      stored procedure activity - it will store the sql Query

8. Lookup vs Get Metadata Activity.
   lookup activity - it is used to get the information about table 
    Get meta activity - it is used to get the information about files and folder

9. Explain the difference between variables and parameters.
   parameter  is used to pass the value in pipeline it is not changeable
   variable is used to store value in pipeline

10. Explain how you will copy 100 tables.
    we will use meta data pipeline to create 100 copy activity 
    we will create source tables and values after that create configuration table for pass the value dynamically
    we will create destination table we will create table names only because we will pass the source value into destination table
    Go to adf create 2 linked service and create 2 datasets create pipeline take needed activities like lookup for get the information about table names
    next take foreach activity for loop the multiple items inside the loop we create copy activity choose source dataset and sink datasets mapping and run the pipeline


11. Explain metadata-driven pipeline.
    metadata-driven pipeline it is mainly use for pass dynamic value without using parameters it will automatically run using config table and lookup activity foreach activity and do multiple activity into this one pipeline
   
12. How will you run only the failed tables in Copy Activity? — Logging.
    we will use 2 stored procedure one for success another one failed it will store all information from table it will show error details when the copy activity is failed we will identify the error and solve it through the logging info
    
13. How will you monitor your run and how can you automate it?
    we will check the pipeline activity that run in adf we will the monitor section and get the information like pipeline success or fail 
    check the status and  error message in the monitor section i can use trigger option to schedule the trigger set time daily 10am that
    specific time trigger will run automatically
    
    
14. What is Data Flow? What are its types?
    Data flow is mainly use for transformation it will simplify the complex query 
    there are 2 types in data flow
    1. Mapping Data flow -- transform from source
      joins, filter, derived column(create new column) to destination
    2. wrangling Data Flow -- power query to transform the Data

15. Explain the basic activities in Data Flow.
    Join -- it will join two table to one table based on condition like uniquid from both table
    derived column -- it will create new column
    filter -- it will filter particular column based on condition


16. What is full load and incremental load?
     Full load less data :
     That called dimension table like numeric data --- revenue
     It will delete old data and update new data

     Incremental load large data:
     That called fact table like descriptive information -- customer name 
    It will update new records only based on 2 rules like primary key and updated date

17. How will you identify whether a table is suitable for full load or incremental load? — Check
fact/dimension.
  i will identify the table if the table is small datasets that means dimension table it will suitable for full load 
  whether the table is large datasets that means fact table it will suitable for incremental load

18. What are the rules for incremental load?
    There are 2 rules like primary key and updated date
     we will check unique value and updated date to identify new records

19. How will you achieve incremental load? — Watermark column/value

    I will achieve the incremental load based on
   If the watermark column name is  order date and the watermark value is last date like 6-09-2026
   we will create a condition if the order date is  > 6-09-2026 it will take the updated records we will use max date to get last date



